these are cave houses dwellings carved
into the rock that once provided 5,000
homes for the inhabitants of Galera
today they're home for just a fifth of
that number and many have been left to
go to ruin that is until the locals
realized these caves could provide a
fantastic tourist attraction and unique
places to live the last time some of
these case were lived in was 50 years
ago
once renovated they're now providing
relatively cheap housing and this is how
it all started a cave carved out from
the side of the rock two to three
hundred years ago it's going to take
about four months to renovate this place
and Cave developer berry jumps going to
tell me more about it so what kind of
people are these developments attracting
the mainly British that are coming over
but and mainly for the investment
purposes but they want to have a holiday
home of a difference but when they they
come and visit but meanwhile they
couldn't rent the properties on a good
return a few Spanish toss it around
living in them all year round but it's
not usually the British that come and
live in them permanently only one or two
eccentric type of people all right and
what do you think's actually attracting
them to the case well totally gimme
every cave house is different and people
are moving inland oh yeah they're
getting away from the coast resort to
come in Latin and mix amongst the
Spanish in the way that used to live
with many many years ago so it's really
really very different
oh absolutely incredible Peter and Clara
bought into the expensive end of the
property market however if you're after
the Andaluz the end lifestyle for less
money a cave house is a possible
alternative if you're thinking of buying
pay with your own it's going to set you
back anywhere between 50 and 85 thousand
euros it all depends on the number of
bedrooms you choose
this cave home is quite typical it has
two bedrooms and once you might expect
it to feel a little claustrophobic
Thanks some pretty high ceilings it's
really not too bad
but I think the best thing of all about
these caves is they're all different
they're all unique and individual so if
you're looking for something special
this could be for you it's relatively
easy to buy a property in Spain once
you've discovered your dream place you
must then make an offer if your offer is
accepted you must then sign a contract
at this stage none of the parties can
withdraw where Spain is unique though is
that as the buyer you don't need to pay
for the services of a lawyer
the estate agent takes care of a large
part of the legal process it sounds good
so far because I couldn't help but
wonder if life in the cave would start
to get me down I needed to talk to a
modern-day troglodyte bill Hamilton has
recently made the move from home dweller
to caveman so why have you chosen to
live in a cave I think the main reason
was value for money quietness it's very
quiet here it's healthy it's three and a
half thousand feet up so that's really
the main reason it's it's like going
back 100 years in time and some days you
just looking out the window and you see
a couple of donkeys or mules walking by
there but pannier bags on with stuff on
it and then all guy walk beside them
other times you hear what bells ring and
you think place of Christmas blue
curtain as I heard the goats walking
down there during the road it's fairy
queen in old fashion and so the people
that they're very friendly kind of
maintenance to these caves require well
the outside there they come once a year
to do all the paintwork and green and
that on the outside because that's in
your local community rates for this area
that's one so your inside is my
responsibility he wanted to extend you
know how easy it is to carve into the
side of the road it's not very hard rock
I so it's not like granite
I've slept at home late nights it's
great soft you have to buy the electric
drive obviously I like to chisel take
too long behind but I've chipped olivo
here
just to get things in and it's not that
difficult really okay which certainly
seems to be a huge renovation success
story and there are definite benefits
your cave is insulated in summer and
winter you can extend your cage without
planning permission and perhaps best of
all every cave is unique and individual
yet despite these benefits cave life has
to be an acquired taste and whether it's
the year or from the